.TH TkRat 1 "October 22 2017" "TkRat 2.3.0 distribution"
.SH NAME
tkrat \- a graphical Mail User Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tkrat
.RB [ "\-confdir \fIdirectory\fP" ]
.RB [ "\-appname \fIname\fP" ]
.RB [ \-open " [" \fIspec\fP  ]]
.RB [ \-opennew " [" \fIspec\fP  ]]
.RB [ \-compose " [" \fIpredef\fP  ]]
.RB [ \-netsync " [" \fIset\fP  ]]
.RB [ \-blank ]
.RB [ mailto:\fImailto_link\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
TkRat is a graphical Mail User Agent (MUA) which is based on the c-client and
tcl/tk toolkits. Its primary purpose is to allow the user to read and send
internet mail as defined in the relevant rfcs. The current goals with the
TkRat project is to create a MUA which is easy to use but still powerful
and fast.
.PP
The only documentation of how TkRat should be used is contained in the
program. Both as a number of help-pages and as balloon help over almost
every feature in the program.
.PP
Some of the actions of TkRat can be controlled by the command line options.
The program also checks for an already running instances of itself and if
it finds one it reuses that one to carry out the command line arguments.
That means that you can remote control an already running instance via
the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
If no arguments are given on the command line TkRat defaults to open
your incoming mailbox. TkRat accepts the following command line options:
.TP 0.5i
.BI \-confdir " directory"
Use this to specify a different default configuration directory than
\fI~/.ratatosk\fR.
.TP 0.5i
.BI \-appname " name"
Use the given \fIname\fP as name of the application. This name is used
to locate already running instances of TkRat. That means that if you want
to run two different instances you must change the name of one of them
via this option. The default value is \fBtkrat\fP.
.TP
.B \-open \fR[\fIspec\fR]
Opens a folder in an existing folder window (the currently open folder
is closed). If no window exists the a new one is created. Which folder
to open is specified in the optional \fIspec\fP argument. If it is not
present then the incoming mailbox is assumed. Otherwise \fIspec\fP may
be the name of one of the users defined folders (case is significant)
or a full folder specification (see the file CONFIGURATION in the source
release for details).
.TP
.B \-opennew \fR[\fIspec\fR]
Works as \fB\-open\fP but always opens the folder in a new window.
.TP
.B \-compose \fR[\fIpredef\fR]
Opens the compose window so that the user may compose a new message.
Default for some header-fields can be given in the \fIpredef\fP argument.
This should be a list with and even number of elements separated by space
(remember to put quotes around the entire list). The first element is the
name of a header-field (case does not matter) and the second is the value
of that field. The third value is the name of another header field and the
fourth is that value etc. The following header-fields can be given values:
.BR to ", " cc ", " bcc ", "
.BR from ", " subject ", " date ", " 
.BR reply_to ", " in_reply_to " and " message_id
.TP
.B \-netsync \fR[\fIset\fR]
Performs network synchronization. This may mean that deferred messages
are sent, disconnected mailboxes updated or arbitrary commands are run.
Exactly which action will be performed is controlled by the optional
\fIset\fP argument. If it is not present then the actions which the
user has defined in the "Setup Network sync" window are performed. If
it is specified it should be on the form of a list with the elements
separated by spaces. Those actions mentioned in the list will be
performed. The possible actions are:
.RS
.TP
.B send
Sends any deferred messages.
.TP
.B fetch
Updates all disconnected folders
.TP
.B cmd
Runs the command specified by the user
.RE
.TP
.B \-blank
Opens a blank folder window. This is useful if you want to start without
opening any folders.
.TP
.B [ mailto:\fImailto_link\fP ]
Opens a compose window with the relevant parts filled in from the
mailto link. The mailto link should follow RFC2368, which is what most
browsers produce.
.SH EXAMPLES
Three different ways of opening the users incoming mailbox:
.RS
.B tkrat
.PP
.B tkrat -open
.PP
.B tkrat -open INBOX
.RE
.PP
This assumes that the inbox is named \fBINBOX\fP in the users list
of folders
.RE
.PP
To start composing a message to \fBfoo@bar.com\fP with the subject
\fBGurka i lungan\fP use:
.RS
\fBtkrat -compose "to foo@bar.com subject 'Gurka i lungan'"\fP
.RE
or
.RS
\fBtkrat mailto:foo@bar.com?subject=Gurka%20i%20lungan\fP
.RE
.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.ratatosk
.SH WWW
Information on the latest version as well as known bugs and some more
is available on the homepage of TkRat on the WWW. This page can be found
at:
.B http://www.tkrat.org/
.SH AUTHOR
TkRat is written Martin Forssen <maf@math.chalmers.se>
